README.md, before:

# my_bot

This is a simple bot that can autonomously navigate unknown environments. It has a lidar, camera and 
wheel encoders for sensing and a differential drive for movement. 

## Installation

Necessary dependencies:

- ROS2 Humble (Developed in this version)
- Gazebo classic
- Navigation2
- SLAM Toolbox
- xacro
- gazebo_ros_pkgs
- twist_mux
- ros2_control



To install the package, run the following commands:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/ws_my_bot/src && cd ~/ws_my_bot/src
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/PrakritTyagi/my_bot.git 
```

```bash
cd ~/ws_my_bot
```

```bash
colcon build
```

```bash
source install/setup.bash
```

## Usage

To launch the gazebo simulation, run the following command:

```bash
ros2 launch my_bot display.launch.py 
```

To launch the slam tool, run the following command:

```bash
ros2 launch my_bot online_async_launch.py use_sim_time:=true
```

To launch the navigation tool, run the following command:

```bash
ros2 launch nav2_bringup navigation_launch.py use_sim_time:=true
```

## Simulation World

The simulation world is duckytown.world. It is a simple world in urban environment with a few obstacles. 

![Simulation World](files/Gazebo.png)



## Navigation while Mapping


<video width="768" height="480" controls>
  <source src="files/SLAM_while_navigating.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

<!-- ## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. -->

Commit message:

updating the README.md file and adding Dockerfile

README.md, after:

# my_bot

This is a simple bot that can autonomously navigate unknown environments. It has a lidar, camera and 
wheel encoders for sensing and a differential drive for movement. 

## Installation

Necessary dependencies:

- ROS2 Humble (Developed in this version)
- Gazebo classic
- Navigation2
- SLAM Toolbox
- xacro
- gazebo_ros_pkgs
- twist_mux
- ros2_control



To install the package, run the following commands:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/ws_my_bot/src && cd ~/ws_my_bot/src
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/PrakritTyagi/my_bot.git 
```

```bash
cd ~/ws_my_bot
```

```bash
colcon build
```

```bash
source install/setup.bash
```

## Usage

To launch the gazebo simulation, run the following command:

```bash
ros2 launch my_bot display.launch.py 
```

To launch the slam tool, run the following command:

```bash
ros2 launch my_bot online_async_launch.py use_sim_time:=true
```

To launch the navigation tool, run the following command:

```bash
ros2 launch nav2_bringup navigation_launch.py use_sim_time:=true
```

## Simulation World

The simulation world is duckytown.world. It is a simple world in urban environment with a few obstacles. 

![Simulation World](files/Gazebo.png)



## Navigation while Mapping


<video width="768" height="480" controls>
  <source src="files/SLAM_while_navigating.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>


## Docker 

The docker file is provided in the my_bot/dockerfile directory. You can copy it to the root of the workspace and build the docker image. I used this with 
vscode remote container extension. 


- If while running docker the gazebo takes time to load, change the world file to a simple one. In my experience, you would have to wait a while for the gazebo to load the duckytown.world file.

<!-- ## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. -->
